Add rpartition() term entry in python (#3427)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/strings/terms/rpartition/rpartition.md

---
Title: '.rpartition()' 
Description: 'Used to split a string into three parts based on a specified separator.'
Subjects: 
  - 'Data Science'

>   - 'Web Development'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: subjects is limited to two items

  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Formatting'
  - 'Tuples'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

The **`rpartition()`** method is a string method that is used to split a string into three parts based on a specified separator. It searches for the last occurrence of the specified separator in the string and divides the string into three parts: the part before the separator, the separator itself, and the part after the separator. The method returns a tuple containing these three parts.

## Syntax

```pseudo
str.rpartition(separator)
```

> - `str`: This is the string on which you want to apply the `.rpartition()` method.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `str`: This is the string on which to apply the `.rpartition()` method.
```
We avoid first- and second-person pronouns in Docs.

> - `separator`: This is the delimiter that determines where to split the string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `separator`: This is the character(s) used to split the string.
```

## Example 1

> In this example, the `.rpartition()` method splits the string text based on the last occurrence of the comma (','). The result is a tuple containing three parts: the part before the comma, the comma itself, and the part after the comma.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `.rpartition()` method splits the string text based on the last occurrence of a comma (`','`). 
```

  
```py
text = "apple,orange,banana"

result = text.rpartition(',')

print(result)

> 

Reviewer: remove empty line

This results in the following output:

```shell
('apple,orange', ',', 'banana')
```

> In this example, the `.rpartition()` method splits the string text based on the last occurrence of the comma (','). The result is a tuple containing three parts: the part before the comma, the comma itself, and the part after the comma.

Reviewer 2: Move this line (47) before the example code.

## Example 2
  

> When specified `seperator` is not found, `rpartition()` returns tuple containing: 1) an empty string, 2) an empty string, and 3) the given string.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When specified `seperator` is not found, `rpartition()` returns tuple containing: (1) an empty string, (2) an empty string, and (3) the given string.
```

```py
text = "example"

result = text.rpartition('word')

print(result)
```

This results in the following output:

> ```shell

Reviewer 2: This is the wrong output.

('', '', 'example')
```

## Codebyte Example

The code below is runnable and uses `.rpartition()` to split `url` : 

```codebyte/python
url = "https://www.example.com/path/to/resource"

base_url, separator, resource = url.rpartition('/')

print("Base URL:", base_url)
print("Separator:", separator)
print("Resource:", resource)

> 

Reviewer: remove the empty line

---
Title: '.rpartition()' 

> Description: 'It is a string method that is used to split a string into three parts based on a specified separator.'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Description: 'Used to split a string into three parts based on a specified separator.'
```

Subjects: 
  - 'Data Science'
  - 'Web Development'
  - 'Computer Science'
Tags: 
  - 'Strings'
  - 'Methods'
  - 'Formatting'
  - 'Tuples'
  - 'Functions'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/analyze-data-with-python'
---

The **`rpartition()`** method is a string method that is used to split a string into three parts based on a specified separator. It searches for the last occurrence of the specified separator in the string and divides the string into three parts: the part before the separator, the separator itself, and the part after the separator. The method returns a tuple containing these three parts.

## Syntax

```pseudo
str.rpartition(separator)
```

> The `.rpartition()` method takes the following optional parameters:
> 
> - `str`: This is the string on which you want to apply the `rpartition()` method.
> 
> - `separator`: This is the delimiter that determines where to split the string.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `str`: This is the string on which you want to apply the `.rpartition()` method.
- `separator`: This is the delimiter that determines where to split the string.
```
The deleted sentence was potentially confusing because `str` is not a prameter.

> ## Example
> 
> - Example 1:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example 1
```

  
```py
text = "apple,orange,banana"

result = text.rpartition(',')

print(result)

```

This results in the following output:

```shell
('apple,orange', ',', 'banana')
```

> In this example, the `rpartition()` method splits the string text based on the last occurrence of the comma (','). The result is a tuple containing three parts: the part before the comma, the comma itself, and the part after the comma.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In this example, the `.rpartition()` method splits the string text based on the last occurrence of the comma (','). The result is a tuple containing three parts: the part before the comma, the comma itself, and the part after the comma.
```
Also move this line (52) before the example code.

> - Example 2 : If `separator` is not found

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Example 2
```

> When a non-empty `seperator` is provided or `seperator` is not found, `rpartition()` looks for the last character in the string and splits it into three parts: everything before the last character, the last character itself, and everything after the last character.

Reviewer 2: The following example is not correct, an empty separator will throw an error. Also, if the separator is not found the result will be the whole string and two empty strings. This entire example needs to be re-written to accurately reflect the method's behavior.
